The Uversity of California, San Diego, though once known for being an environmentally friendly campus, has over the last several years become the leading producer in one environmental hazard: social pollution. This news has arrived following an internal review of campus social climate, conducted yearly by the Environmental Science Department, who “just want to conduct something for once.” In order to address the issue before Welcome Week this year, environmentalists are taking steps to raise awareness about the negative effect our increased reliance on icebreakers can have.

"20 or 30 years ago, when icebreakers were mostly used in recreational pick-up lines, the effects were sustainable,” environmental scientist Rebecca Hue said during a “Sustainable Campus” photoshoot. “But with the rise in group interaction, places like UCSD become breeding grounds for awkward, clumsy, environmental chaos."

“Something has to be done,” Hue emphasized before posing for a picture with the dean beside one of the university's “very functional” recycling bins.

Social pollution occurs when poor interpersonal interactions cause biological systems — like human bodies — to adversely affect their surrounding environment in a desperate attempt to escape the situation. Similar to a trapped animal chewing off its own leg or a captive dolphin drowning itself in a wading pool, there’s evidence to suggest these reactions are related to stress. During icebreakers, and other mismanaged introductions, social pollution can reach its peak production through increased sweating, the generation of hot air, and the release of toxic gases which gather in isolated regions like the polar cap, stressing the local environments.

The exact level of this stress has been, until recently, difficult to quantify. Hubert Jones, a climate change expert recently banned from Congress for using a reusable water bottle, explained that the combined toxins produced during UCSD's Welcome Week are equal to approximately "10,000 polar bears, the scientific number known for being enough to break the ice."

Despite his metaphor, Jones wanted to emphasize that climate change is, in fact, decimating the polar bear population.

While research into the effects of social pollution are still ongoing, Jones supported the work done by UCSD to curb the social/environmental nightmare that is Welcome Week, saying, “Icebreakers are only the third largest source of social tension, behind tangential arguments on Facebook and one person in a group of friends saying something really racist. While it’s a positive step forward, I can't support UCSD’s program unless it works to alleviate one of the worst causes.”

In order to shrink UCSD’s footprint, Jones suggests that group facilitators “Avoid abstract questions, like 'what's your real life super power' or 'what kind of fruit are you?' Anything that people can’t come up with an easily shareable answer to in seconds or which might inspire overthinking.”

“And never, ever make people explain their answers. Trying to justify an answer is when 95 percent of hot air emissions occur. If someone wants to say they're a pomegranate, just let it be. But again, it’s really more important that—"

Welcome Week festivities begin September 20th with the All Campus Dance, famously known for being “not awkward” and “not a place people puke.”
